---
layout: page
title: Kevin's Coaching Page | November 2025
newsletter: false
---

# Kevin's Coaching Page | November 2025

Hey Lane! I enjoyed your recent stream on Proko, it was very educational as always but also great company to draw along with. If you ever magically have time for streaming on YouTube or Twitch I would be quick to subscribe :)

I'm excited to share quite a few updates. I feel like this is a portfolio check in for a semester class because I can see a lot of progress since my first update integrating your feedback and I have a set of drawings to share that I feel quite proud of. I'll reflect on them individually and share some questions if I have them, and will be eager to hear your critique. References are linked in captions!

## Charcoal pencil on newsprint

This composition was partly inspired by your recent post showing a sharp contrast in a developed portrait and much more sparse sketch for the rest of the drawing. I think I've made a lot of improvements in rendering core shadows as a connected "river" rather than disjointed marks. I struggled a little bit with interpreting the complex shadows around the eye on the shadow side, and maybe the likeness isn't fully accurate to the reference, but I'm satisfied with the value design and composition as a whole. 

{% include image.html file='coaching/charcoal-1.jpeg' description="[Reference](/img/coaching/charcoal-1-ref.jpeg)." %}

## Procreate figure

I started this study because I wanted to practice shadow shape and core shadow rendering. I think I had a breakthrough in understanding how I can use a subtle variety of marks in the core shadow rendering while still keeping the statement simple and unified. Quite pleased with the contrast between the figure and the fabric!

{% include image.html file='coaching/charcoal-2.jpeg' description="[Reference](/img/coaching/charcoal-2-ref.jpeg)." %}

## Procreate portrait

This one is fun because I commissioned a local model who joins the life drawing sessions I host for a custom portrait reference pack that I can use for my own practice but also for classes. There are so many great references out there, but it's nice to have a pack from a model I work with directly and can take my requests into account.

I tried to apply your feedback about applying more subtle transitions in the lights for a portrait between highlights and soft midtones. I like the graphic energy of the hair rendering, but I'm not sure about the values. I might need to do more hair studies...

{% include image.html file='coaching/charcoal-3.jpeg' description="[Reference](/img/coaching/charcoal-3-ref.jpeg)." %}

## Trying Eliza Ivanova's brushes

This was a drawing just to test out [Eliza Ivanova's new brush pack](https://eleeza.gumroad.com/l/brushes) that mimics her traditional graphite approach using mechanical pencils and blending stumps. Pretty fun and somewhat different feel than the Lane Brown charcoals :) I'm not sure what happened with that scribble of an arm and hand... maybe I shied away from the challenge as you wrote about recently :)

{% include image.html file='coaching/graphite-1.jpeg' description="[Reference](/img/coaching/graphite-1-ref.jpeg)." %}

## More drawings on stone...!

I made a set of new drawings on slate, and more drawings on the thrifted Pier 1 stone I shared with you in my video update. Truly obsessed with experimenting with drawing on stone! The slate was a unique challenge compared to marble, it had quite a rough texture and even sharp jumps in level. I'm sure there is smoother slate out there, but it's also fun to work with the unexpected texture changes. I attached one reference just as an example, but it's probably hard to give much feedback on these because of the material. Mostly sharing because it's an exciting experiment!

{% include image.html file='coaching/slate-1.jpeg' description="[Reference](/img/coaching/slate-1-ref.jpeg)." %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/slate-2.jpeg' description="" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/stone-1.jpeg' description="" %}

## Just for fun: wildlife drawing

A few sketches just for fun—I hosted a wildlife drawing event for Halloween that featured a red-tailed hawk, two screech owls, a barred owl, a turkey vulture, a raven, and an albino crow! I didn't actually have that much time to draw because over 40 artists showed up and I was busy hosting and making sure everything was going smoothly, so these were very fast sketches from the birds. Hoping to do another event like this in February! I wrote a [blog post recap of the event](https://appletondrawingclub.com/posts/2025-10-30-drawing-wild) if you're interested in photos of the birds!

{% include image.html file='coaching/bird-1.jpeg' description="" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/bird-2.jpeg' description="" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/bird-3.jpeg' description="" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/bird-4.jpeg' description="" %}

## Another project!

I think you saw this on Instagram, but I'm writing a life drawing book! It's primarily for my own use in guided life drawing sessions as a repository of simple exercises I can pull from and share with students.

But it's also designed to be a handbook you can carry with you to life drawing sessions as an inspirational reference to keep your practice fresh and well-rounded. In between exercises I'm mixing in short chapters on the creative practice of life drawing beyond the technical practice. I find there are a lot of figure drawing books that are helpful references for things like the basics of materials, common construction patterns for all the parts of the body, and a few high level exercises. And then there are books like Henry Yan's that are pretty heavy on sharing full processes for life drawing in various pose lengths and styles. But I haven't found many that collect a wide variety of exercises targeting specific skills for an ongoing life drawing practice (like the egg rendering portrait exercise you shared on Proko and on Patreon!). So that's what this book is. It's very rough and changing quickly as I write, but I'd love to share it with you when it's in a more intelligible state.

{% include image.html file='coaching/art-just-happens.jpeg' description="" %}

Thanks again, Lane, looking forward to your feedback!