---
layout: page
title: Kevin's Coaching Page | October 2025
newsletter: false
---

# Kevin's Coaching Page | October 2025

Where does the time go?! I know it's been a while since I last reached out to share a coaching update—truly mysterious where the time went. I've been occupied with various projects, including ramping up more sessions and classes for the life drawing group I host. Somehow I did manage to accumulate some drawings to share with you and some questions to ask. I've also been benefiting from the snippets of coaching videos shared on the Patreon—thank you!

Although I haven't shared an update in a while, each time I draw I can tell I'm integrating your past feedback a bit more. Not sure how much it comes across in my work yet, but I sense small, consistent improvements! Ok, diving right in.

## Random design choices

One of my goals for coaching was to "improve composition, shape design, and atmosphere in figures and portraits." I think I've picked up several approaches for this from your direct feedback and lessons, and also from studying your work in general. But when I'm in the middle of a drawing, I often feel like I'm randomly picking "design effects" for different parts of the image. I try to keep a focal point of interest and fade out detail or contrast toward the edges, but sometimes the end result feels more like a grab bag of random visual experiments than a cohesive drawing. I'm wondering if it comes across that way or if I'm too close to it, or if there's an adjustment I might make to the way I think about design to create a more cohesive result.

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_0695.jpeg' description="In this drawing I was mostly practicing finding the core shadow and letting detail in the shadow areas fade away. Overall satisfied with the effect, but part of me thinks maybe there are too many competing areas of focus. [Reference](/img/coaching/IMG_0693.jpeg)." %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_0636.jpeg' description="Feels to me like slightly random experiments in contrast and value. [Reference](/img/coaching/IMG_0634.jpeg)." %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_0617.jpeg' description="This portrait feels more cohesive, perhaps because I was also referencing the design choices in a couple Sargent portraits. [Reference](/img/coaching/M2MqIapg.jpeg). " %}

## Painting

I've been so focused on drawing that I feel I'm neglecting my painting skills. Most of my painting experience in the past has been still life or landscape, so I haven't actually done much painting of portraits and figures. I'm interested in making time to do so, both digitally and with oil. I thought I would share a few paintings from the past couple years for general feedback and questions:

- I often struggle with color mixing skin tones, which I know is a common challenge. I have a feeling the answer here is just "keep trying", but I find I either try to "match reality" too closely and the color ends up too desaturated, or I try to counteract dull colors by exaggerating warm and cool tones but then it becomes too bright.
- I enjoy painting with oils, but I find digital painting hard to get a grasp on as a medium. I've tried several times over the years in Procreate and many years ago in Photoshop, but I haven't quite gotten a feel for the "paint" in a digital context. I haven't had the pleasure of using your own painting brush pack for Photoshop because I draw in Procreate and haven't done drawing or painting in Photoshop for many years. It's a pretty basic question that you've probably been asked 10,000 times, but I'm curious about your go-to painting setup for Procreate (if any)! Otherwise I might need to dust off the Wacom tablet.

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_0512.jpeg' description="Reference lost, unfortunately. I like the overall design but I'm not sure sure about the paint 'texture'. I think I just used a round soft brush." %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_0630.jpeg' description="Also reference lost, just a sketch. I used a harder brush with a gradual blending effect that let me have more of a balance between hard and soft effects." %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_1776.jpeg' description="An unfinished oil portrait. [Reference](/img/coaching/miles.png)." %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_3833.jpeg' description="Another oil portrait. Reference lost." %}

## Just for fun: drawing on stone and random samples

I've been experimenting with drawing on stone and marble tiles and it's surprisingly useful as a drawing surface. I can easily adjust the "tooth" of the stone with sandpaper to the right smoothness, and it's highly erasable either with a kneaded eraser or with sandpaper if necessary. Depending on the stone, there's a really beautiful quality to the surface when it moves in the light

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_7860.jpeg' description="Sanguine on marble" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_7865.jpeg' description="Sanguine on marble" %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_8428.jpeg' description="Charcoal and white chalk on stone" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_8429.jpeg' description="Charcoal and white chalk on stone" %}

I'll share a few other random drawings and gestures, no need for deep feedback here, just rounding out the update :)

{% include image.html file='coaching/678E51F9-BDBC-4035-A101-AB548A1A511A.jpeg' description="Sanguine" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/B0C800C4-3D31-4DC4-A258-63910D3737BF.jpeg' description="Sanguine" %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_0639.jpeg' description="Gesture" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_7065.jpeg' description="Gesture" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_7066.jpeg' description="Gesture" %}
{% include image.html file='coaching/IMG_8375.jpeg' description="Gesture" %}

Thank you again for your support and encouragement, Lane!
