---
layout: page
title: Kevin's Coaching Page | December 2025
newsletter: false
---

# Kevin's Coaching Page | December 2025

Lane! Happy new year. I meant to send this to you a couple weeks ago but holidays and a cold distracted me. Oh well, back on track! Hope you're doing well. Pretty simple update for you this time, just a few images to share and an experiment at the end!

## Foreshortened pose

I had a couple goals in mind with this one:

1. I tend to take it a bit easy on myself by choosing straightforward standing poses, so I wanted to challenge myself with a pose that has more depth and foreshortening.
2. I wanted to incorporate slightly more of a sense of background through texture rather than just a floating figure in space

I think my accuracy was a bit off in the pose alignment and foreshortening now that I look back at it side by side with the reference, but overall I enjoy the composition and general effect.

{% include image.html file='coaching/foreshortened.jpeg' description="[Reference 1](/img/coaching/forshortened-ref.jpeg)" %}

## Portrait painting

I'd like to do more portrait and figure painting this year both digitally and with oils, so I'm warming up a bit with this one. I was mostly focused on color and value relationships here rather than getting a perfect likeness. Looking back I think I could have pushed the saturation and value contrast a bit more. Your figure painting video came at exactly the right time and gave me some new insights to try!

{% include image.html file='coaching/portrait.jpeg' description="[Reference 1](/img/coaching/portrait-ref.jpeg)" %}

## Primitive forms

I've been getting back to basics with your primitive forms reference pack! I've been enjoying the exercise and hoping to do more of these in physical charcoal and oils. It's truly impressive how many variations of still life setups are in the reference pack, I won't be running out of options soon! I'm curious what you might notice in these for feedback, I was mostly focused on rendering quality and balancing values across the composition.

{% include image.html file='coaching/primitive-forms.jpeg' description="[Reference 1](/img/coaching/primitive-forms-ref-1.jpeg), [Reference 2](/img/coaching/primitive-forms-ref-2.jpeg)" %}

## Drawing video

This is an experiment, but I thought it might be interesting to share a video of myself drawing with physical charcoal. I wonder if you might notice feedback to share related to the way I physically draw or how I develop a short sketch that might not show up in a finished sketch. Please feel free to skip this if it doesn't seem useful for feedback or to jump around or watch a clip at 2x speed! It's a video with two 10 minute portrait sketches from online references.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2Yt0EybYiCk?si=aJLJKNk-zq-OxT9L&amp;start=70" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Thanks!

Thanks again for all the support and encouragement, Lane! Really appreciated our chat last time we spoke, and hope you're having a great new year so far!