---
layout: page
title: Kevin's Coaching Page | February 2026
newsletter: false
---

# Kevin's Coaching Page | February 2026

Hello again! I've been eager to share an update with you for a while, and I finally have both a selection of new work for feedback and a few moments to put this page together.

Hope your new year is going well. I'll embarrass you by saying I've seen you're active on Reddit sharing new work since it consistently climbs to the top of r/art! I can sense the momentum for Threadbare is picking up, hope it's been fun. By the way, I saw this fabric focused [reference pack](https://trueref.io/products/flowing-fabric-blueberry-girl) that I thought you might find useful. Most of the references on this site are semi-clothed but they seem high quality.

Ok... jumping into new work for feedback :)

## A Portrait

Going in chronological order, earlier in January I worked on putting some feedback you shared into practice for portraits, which was focusing on the _shape_ of the head for likeness. I noticed I tend to focus on the relationship between the features and work from the center out when developing a portrait because that's what I struggled with most when I started studying portrait drawing. But I find that means I tend to be less intentional in the "outside" shape of the jaw / head as I get toward the edges.

In this portrait I tried to make the overall shape more characteristic and think about the shape design more than I normally do and find a balance between the inner and outer relationships.

{% include image.html file='coaching/portrait-shape-practice.jpg' description="Charcoal on paper. [Reference](/img/coaching/portrait-shape-practice-ref.jpg)" %}

## Figure 1

With this drawing I was experimenting with a kind of drawing game where I would roll a die every so often to determine what aspect to focus on—gesture, contour, construction, or value. For example I would roll a die and do the initial sketch focusing only on gesture, and then I would roll again and do another pass focusing on contour etc., repeating until it felt like it was done.

Overall it was a fun way to draw and I think it helped me get out of my own head thinking about what I wanted it to look like and encouraged me to just play around more with pushing these different elements in ways I normally might not. I like the resulting variety of markmaking and gradient of focus from the pelvis compared to the portrait.

{% include image.html file='coaching/figure-1-0226.jpg' description="Procreate. [Reference](/img/coaching/figure-1-0226-ref.jpg)" %}

## Figure 2

This reference feels tricky with some secondary light sources, I used it when it came up as a random reference on Croquis Cafe. At first I was inspired by [this low contrast drawing](https://www.instagram.com/p/DCcx5ODybrt/) but eventually I diverged from the style inspiration as the drawing progressed. I wish I had more to say about this one but basically it's one of the more developed drawings from my sketchbook from the last couple months and I'm curious what you might notice in the reference, style inspiration, and result!

{% include image.html file='coaching/figure-2-0226.jpg' description="Procreate. [Reference](/img/coaching/figure-2-0226-ref.jpg)" %}


## Birds

I hosted the third wildlife drawing session at my life drawing group in February (Barn owl, burrowing owl, saker falcon, kestrel, goshawk, and red tailed hawk!). These mourning doves were inspired by the birds returning for spring in my yard and your "portrait pile", although I guess this is a "pigeon pile."

The experiment here was incorporating small doses of chalk pastel as accents to go with the charcoal (I only recently got a set of pastels, so I'm getting accustomed to them). I pulled from a bunch of different references so I tried to arrange them roughly in the same sequence as the final drawing. I'm planning to submit to this [bird themed show](https://www.lywam.org/exhibitions-archive/birds-in-art-2026/), so this is a study to figure out what I might submit!

{% include image.html file='coaching/mourning-doves.jpg' description="Charcoal and chalk pastel on watercolor paper. [Reference](/img/coaching/mourning-doves-ref.png)" %}

## Just for fun, drawing with... bread?

I read a note in a book of Sargent portraits about his habit of drawing with chunks of bread and wanted to try it for myself... turns out it's very nice 😂

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QOLD1Yr_ptc?si=yYalU1FtMEDRZkIN" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Thanks!

Thanks again for all the support and encouragement, Lane!
