---
layout: page
title: Kevin's Coaching Page | May 2026
newsletter: false
---

# Kevin's Coaching Page | May 2026

I have an album where I keep almost every figure and portrait drawing I've made since April 2022, which is when I went to a figure drawing session for the first time and then started to seriously focus on figure and portrait drawing. There are over 1000 photos, and I can see very clearly a gradual progression in knowledge and skill, but also many moments of big leaps. Often those big leaps are followed by what feels like a step back as I attempt to solidify a new skill until it finally sticks.

Incredibly, it's been a year since I signed up for coaching! This means I can look back and see how much I've grown, and it is remarkable how much having direct feedback and encouragement has made those leaps more frequent and made them more likely to stick. Even clicking through [the index](/lane-coaching/) where I have all of my updates listed shows a very obvious improvement as I look back.

When I read my goals from last year, I've reached all of them in one way or another thanks to your support. I feel much more confident in a huge variety of drawing and design skills, but also in my own creative direction as an artist and a teacher.

I need to do some reflection on what questions, challenges, and goals are most pressing for me looking ahead, but for now I'm happy to finally share some new drawings for feedback! At the end I'll share some other fun updates that you might find interesting and might explain my lack of updates for the last couple months :)

## A sketch, new and old

I was sketching from the Croquis Cafe randomized fast sketch and a pose came up that I had drawn three years ago. I wouldn't say the newer drawing is particularly groundbreaking since it was a casual sketching session, but I thought I would share it for general feedback and just to illustrate how things have changed (I guess this is like [Kenzo's video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJTjYRVoym4&t=55s) featuring your early drawings and progression 😂).

A couple areas I focused on in this sketch were:

- Using cast shadows to create a sense of the environment without drawing the actual space (I watched the coaching clip where you mentioned this and I tried to apply it here)
- Applying midtones around the internal structure in the light areas and a gradual "fall off" gradient of light across the figure

{% include image.html file='coaching/figure-sketch-new.jpeg' description="May 2026, Procreate. [Reference](/img/coaching/figure-sketch-ref.jpg)" %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/figure-sketch-old.jpeg' description="July 2023, Procreate. [Reference](/img/coaching/figure-sketch-ref.jpg)" %}

## Chiaroscuro

I was looking at Rembrandt paintings and waited to try some kind of chiaroscuro! Not sure I pushed it as far as the old master, but pretty satisified with the overall result. I was thinking about the recent coaching clip when you mentioned that often the overall lighting plan is actually the biggest idea which helped me shift focus away from the details of the figure and into the wider composition. If I were to self-critique, I'd say the highlights on the ear are a little out of context to the other values. Similar to the first drawing, I was paying extra attention to the midtones and highlights in the light areas to describe internal structure.

{% include image.html file='coaching/chiaroscuro.jpeg' description="[Reference](/img/coaching/chiaroscuro-ref.jpeg) (cropped from a larger image)" %}

## Full figure exercise

I realized that I sometimes rely on "fading out" a figure at the edges a little too often to avoid the complexities of hands and feet, so I wanted to specifically make a drawing with a "full" figure that at least describes some level of structure from top to bottom. I think the figure feels a bit awkwardly floating in space but otherwise it was a helpful exercise!

{% include image.html file='coaching/figure-study-0526.jpeg' description="[Reference](/img/coaching/figure-study-0526-ref.jpeg)" %}

## Quick sketch page

In this page I was trying to emulate Henry Yan's approach of layering many short pose sketches on top of each other. I typically work this way at life drawing on large newsprint, but when I'm constrained to the iPad screen the smaller real estate makes it feel less natural. I am considering breaking out my old Wacom from college and picking up your Photoshop brushes!

I don't think the specific drawings are so important here, but I'm curious about your thoughts on studies like this that combine multiple poses or multiple passes at elements of the same pose. Of course digitally it's easy to make many drawings and then compose them later on a page in a pleasing way and also keep them separate. I just love this kind of life drawing page!

{% include image.html file='coaching/figure-sheet.jpeg' description="" %}

## Just for fun

I know it's been a while since my last update, I thought I would share a few other details of what's been going on and keeping me busy! For one thing I've really been enjoying the general Patreon posts, it's really becoming a treasure trove of lessons and inspiration.

### Drawing Club

The life drawing group I host has been ramping up with lots of great special sessions and themes. In a happy coincidence, one model suggested a classical drapery theme, and I was able to share a few of your drawings as inspiration for poses. It was easily one of my favorite sessions, I can see why you've found so much possibility in Threadbare. I was rushing to capture the short poses because they were so good!

{% include image.html file='coaching/fabric-figure.jpeg' description="" %}

Another model suggested a "fairy queen" theme:

{% include image.html file='coaching/fairy-1.jpeg' description="" %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/fairy-2.jpeg' description="" %}

All of our themed sessions have been ideas from models, very lucky to have many creative and professional models at our group! In a couple weeks we have a "Victorian Parlor Sketching" at a local historic house museum that has a charming small art collection. The models are two sisters who are wearing Victorian inspired costumes they made and they'll wear jewelry from the museum collection. Way too much inspiration!

### Work on stone

I've been continuing my drawing on stone experiments and recently acquired four large marble slabs from a local stone monument company through an artist who comes to drawing club...

{% include image.html file='coaching/marble-slabs.jpeg' description="" %}

I could barely move these and I'm considering ways to break them down into smaller pieces but making sculptural objects with drawings on the surface.

I also collected my stone drawing collection on a [new portfolio page here](https://morven.studio). I'm excited to keep experimenting with odd surfaces!

### Workshops and writing

I taught two sessions of a gesture drawing workshop at the local art museum, which was a treat and I think well received. Drawing education is rare in the area at the moment, so I think students were eager for workshops with substance and depth. I've slowly started writing my book of life drawing exercises again after a break, and I also had a chance to chat with Kenzo over a video call to get his perspective on the state of life drawing education resources (he was as kind and gracious as you said!).

### Statues

I just thought you would enjoy this statue I saw at the Chazen museum in Madison!

{% include image.html file='coaching/statue-inspiration-1.jpeg' description="" %}

{% include image.html file='coaching/statue-inspiration-2.jpeg' description="" %}

The plate was labelled:

Diana
Edward MacCartan (1879-1947)
Bronze cast
1923

I also saw a number of great figure statues cast in bronze in London, including two versions of this statue in completely different museums...

{% include image.html file='coaching/statue-inspiration-3.jpeg' description="" %}

Dancer looking at the sole of her right foot, Edgar Degas. Apparently the model found the pose extremely challenging.

## Thank you!

Thanks again, Lane! Looking forward to your feedback as always.
