---
layout: post
title: Commentary on the View from a Window
category: writing
description: "Two bridges, one tall, one low. Almost parallel. Miles apart in space, a few inches on a two dimensional plane."
---

Two bridges, one tall, one low. Almost parallel. Miles apart in space, a few inches on a two dimensional plane.

River. River river river river river. Water, water everywhere (eventually it goes into my sink).

Water tower, watchtower. I wonder about the lives of the people who sit and wait for the ships to come in. Do they watch Netflix during their shifts? Then press the button that raises the bridge and causes commutes to be delayed?

The long railroad. Potential escape, hop a car. Combined with the bridge a wicked spider's web of delayed travel and impatience.

Two full scale replicas of the Nina and Pinta, docked on the edge of the river, sitting below twenty flags representing other countries, but not Spain, which is odd considering our historical boat visitors.

(I had to look up what Spain's flag looks like.)

Traffic starts as a trickle, is getting steadier now as it approaches 7:00.

Construction zone, now sleeping, soon will be awake and start yelling all day.

Tower wreathed in smoke topped with blinking red eyes. A factory. Looks way too much like Mordor now that I think about it.

A large pile of gravel? Like larger than you're imagining probably. In perspective it's taller than the far bridge which is quite tall. The symbol of the city's industrial past, a pile of dirt. I crop it out of photos when I take pictures of my view.

Dog walker. With two small dogs. I wonder about people with small dogs.

Pelicans!