# What to do After the Bootcamp

Programming bootcamps are fast paced, challenging experiences. It's a focused time to learn as much as you can in an immersive way. However, just like learning shouldn't stop after college, learning more programming skills isn't something that should stop after the bootcamp. In fact, continuing to learn is a requirement for a successful career as a developer. And, just like the most important part of traditional school isn't the specific subjects you're learning but the skills and habits of learning itself, the most important part of the bootcamp experience isn't the specific languages or frameworks you learn, but the fundamentals of programming that you can use no matter where your technology exploration takes you in your career and personal projects.

Here are three things you should do after the bootcamp:

1. **Learn something completely different** – use the momentum from the bootcamp to keep exploring on your own. Start learning a language or framework you didn't learn at all during the course. You'll be amazed at how different the experience is compared to when you first started learning. You'll still get stuck and have a lot of questions, but you'll have a layer of fundamental skills that speed up the process and deepen your knowledge as you go. Many skills transfer between different frameworks and languages, so start exploring something new to see how far you've come. It works best if this is connected to a personal project you really want to make yourself because that gives you motivation and focus for what to learn next in the sea of possibilities.
2. **Connect with other developers** – Make sure you have ways to regularly spend time with other developers outside of the bootcamp experience. A key to success and continued learning is spending time around other people doing the same thing. The bootcamp environment provides these opportunities for you, but after the course it's up to you to integrate it into your life. This can mean meetups, informational interviews over coffee, or keeping in touch with your mentors/teachers/other students from the bootcamp. I know I love hearing about what students are learning after the bootcamp! It's easy for impostor syndrome to set in at this point—you might feel like you don't really fit in or can't hold a conversation with other developers effectively. I've been in conversations with other developers where I just can't follow what they're saying at all! The best thing to do is to be totally candid about where you are. You can say something like, "I just finished a bootcamp program where I learned X, Y and Z. Now I'm exploring A, B, and C, and I'm looking for opportunities related to foo, bar, and baz." Plug in those variables, and whoever you're talking to will get a good sense of your experience level and what you're looking to learn next, which makes it much more likely that they can provide ample support and recommendations, connecting you to resources and people who can help with the next step.
3. **Share what you learn** – Build sharing into your routine. Write about what you're learning, look for opportunities to help new developers, and share your perspective in conversations. You might not feel like it, but you're already more experienced than many who are looking to learn web development, and soon you'll be one of the more experienced developers in the room and people will be coming to you for guidance. Get into the habit now—it will accelerate your own learning and build even more connections over time.

The goal of a bootcamp is to get solid fundamental skills through a challenging, immersive experience that you can then apply to whatever tool or language you need for whatever you're working on. At the end of a bootcamp, you are much more independent than when you started and you have a solid starting point to keep exploring and growing. So pick a project, give it a shot, and tell us all about it at the meetup!
